# Frequent-Pattern-Mining

Course: CSC 240

DATE: Oct.24th , 2016

Project 1


MAIN CONTINENT IN THE FOLDER:

	test_short.txt

		Short test dataset from textbook problem 6.6.

	test.txt

		Test dataset generated by my classmate Xuan Tang.

	adult.txt

		Required adult dataset from UCI database. (originally named adult.data)

	OUTPUT.pdf

		Output of the program for the adult dataset with minimum support of 0.6.

	src (folder)

		java source files:

		Apriori.java

			Class implementing Apriori algorithm which containing a main method

		FPGrowth.java

			Class implementing FP-Growth algorithm which containing a main method

		FPTree.java

			Class of FPTree object

		HeaderNode.java

			Class of header node object used to generate the header table in FP-Growth

		HeaderComparator.java

			Class of comparator used to sort the header table

		AprioriImproved.java

			Class implementing my improved Apriori algorithm which containing a main method


BRIEF DESCRIPTION

	This program implements Apriori, FP-Growth, my improved Apriori algorithms.
	
	Apriori and FP-Growth are generally based on the description and the pseudocode provided in the textbook.
	
	For my improved algorithm, I used the hash table improvement and transaction scan reduction improvement strategies, for more details, please see my report and code.
	

HOW TO COMPILE AND RUN THE CODE

	javac Apriori.java

	java Apriori

	OR

	javac FPGrowth.java

	java FPGrowth

	OR

	javac AprioriImproved.java

	java AprioriImproved


CITATION:

	Data Set:

		Adult Data Set, https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Adult , Lichman, M. (2013). UCI Machine Learning Repository [http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml]. Irvine, CA: University of California, School of Information and Computer Science.


	TextBook:

		Jiawei Han, Micheline, Kamber, Jian Pei, Data Mining: Concepts and Techniques, 3/E, Morgan Kaufmann, 2011


	Open Source:

		Monperrus, Martin. Java implementation of the Apriori algorithm for mining frequent itemsets. GitHub repository, https://gist.github.com/monperrus/7157717

		Nobahar, Kamran. An implementation of FP-Growth algorithm in Java, GitHub repository, https://github.com/goodinges/FP-Growth-Java (referred for my insert method in FP-Growth)

		Generating all permutations of a given string, Stack Overflow, http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4240080/generating-all-permutations-of-a-given-string (referred for my combinations generation method in FP-Growth)
